Soc 006 rw1 multidimensional poverty index (#181)
resource-watch/data-pre-processing: soc_006_rw1_multidimensional_poverty_index/README.md

## Multidimensional Poverty Index Dataset Pre-processing
This file describes the data pre-processing that was done to [the Multidimensional Poverty Index](http://hdr.undp.org/en/2020-MPI) for [display on Resource Watch](https://resourcewatch.org/data/explore/d3486db9-5da4-4aee-a363-f71b643a7ce1).

The source provided the data as an excel file.

Below, we describe the steps used to reformat the table so that it is formatted correctly to upload to Carto.

> 1. Read in the data as a pandas dataframe.
> 2. Remove empty columns and rows that contain only notes instead of actual data.
> 4. Combine the strings in the first 4 rows of the dataframe to create headers.
> 5. Remove the first 4 rows of the dataframe.
> 6. Remove columns that contain footnotes instead of actual data.
> 7. Extract the year values from the column 'Year and survey'(now 'Multidimensional Poverty IndexYear and survey2008-2019') and store them in a new column 'yr_survey'.
> 8. Extract the survey codes from the column 'Year and survey'(now 'Multidimensional Poverty IndexYear and survey2008-2019') and store them in a new column 'survey'.
> 9. Drop the columns 'index' and 'Year and survey'(now 'Multidimensional Poverty IndexYear and survey2008-2019').
> 10. Rename the columns to be more concise.
> 11. Replace '%' in column names with '_percent', replace spaces and special characters with underscores, and convert all letters in column names to lowercase.
> 12. Subset the dataframe to only include data of countries.
> 13. Replace the '..', which is used to indicate no-data, in the dataframe with None.
> 14. Except the columns 'country', 'survey', and 'yr_survey', set the data type of the columns to float.
> 15. Create a new column 'release_dt' to store the year the data was released in as the first date in that year.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Read in the data as a pandas dataframe and cremove any notes or empty rows/columns the data table.
2. Rename column headers to be more descriptive and to remove special characters so that it can be uploaded to Carto without losing information.
3. Split the column 'Year and survey' into two new columns:
  - 'yr_survey', which contains the year
  - 'survey', which contains the survey codes
4. Subset the dataframe to only include data of countries, removing any rows corresponding to regions.
5. Replace the '..', which is used to indicate no-data in the dataframe, with None.
6. Create a new column 'release_dt' to store the year the data was released in as the first date in that year (January 1, XXXX).
```
